Hansel minutes.com Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number one
62. Recorded live Wednesday, May 14th, 2009.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by Tellerik rad controls.
The most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms. An
asp.net web applications online@wwwdottlerikdotcomandby.net developers
journal the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott talks with developers,
how Rotenberg and Kurt Monroe.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes and I'm
here in Los Angeles at
tech ed North America, 2009,
sitting down with Howe Rodenburg
from PowerShell community.org, and also
now of home Depot. I
Scott, and with Kirk Munroe
from quest software and makers
of power gooey. Hey Scott.
Hey guys. So a PowerShell.
I haven't got a show
on PowerShell in a while.
I used to be big
time hardcore PowerShell because I
was working in, in banking
and we had to manage
a lot of machines, right?
We wanted to do something
end times and at the
time PowerShell was a thing.
This was PowerShell one L
so a was about two,
three years ago, probably three
years ago, even. And I
had to, I had to
write a remoting feature and
makes a, make a service.
So my PowerShell applets could
talk to each other. You
know, PowerShell was really powerful,
but I still needed to
do a lot of stuff
and I've dropped out, right.
I've come to work for
the big blue monster. And
I, I don't have the
need to manage more than
four or five machines at
a time. What have I
missed in PowerShell? What's happened
in last three years in
PowerShell? Well, you probably got
in before one dot O
had even released at that
0.3 years ago, then a
couple of betas. Yeah. So
released a w two, two
and a half years ago.
And, but now we've, we're
coming up on a windows
seven, of course. And in
2008, our two and Microsoft
is going to be releasing
PowerShell version to ship with
both of those operating systems.
Okay. So that means that
windows seven, I'm looking at
my, did my Dell mini
nine. I've got PowerShell on
here already. Let me just
hit this power. And I
got, okay, so I've got
PowerShell and it looks like
I've got some kind of
a, a, a PowerShell I
S E on my that's
version two right there. And
this is just the regular
version of windows seven. This
isn't the fancy enterprise version
that I've got. This is
client it's shipping with, with
all versions of windows, starting
with seven. Okay. Rock on.
So that means that, like
you said, the 2008 are
two, it'll just be there
and which is great because
now it's a requirement you
don't have to satisfy. You
don't have to think about
installing it on your servers,
installing it on your, all
your PCs. Okay. So, so
what did I miss a
as far as what additions
new commandlets well, yeah, of
course are going to be
new commandlets especially now that
a lot of between version
one and version two, a
lot of the product groups
at Microsoft have really kind
of gotten it now. And
they're on the train version
one. I don't remember how
many commandments that came with,
probably in the order of
two 50, a version two
has over 500. Commandlets shipping
with it when you've, when
you include things like on
the, on the server skews
bits, and some other server
related functions. So, you know,
there's a lot of stuff
to go through. Whereas you're
using is commandlet, which is
actually spelled CMD, L E
T S it kind of
hearkens back to command dot
ECC, but it's a command
is just a bite sized
task oriented. You know, this,
this is, this is what
does, and it only does
this. You have it's, it's
a verb noun, syntax. A
lot of your listeners are
probably familiar with some of
the concepts of PowerShell, but
it's instead of external executable,
you have command words. Right.
Well, and we shouldn't assume
that they're there, they're too
familiar with it because, you
know, just when I think
that everybody knows PowerShell, I
realized that there's people who
kind of know that it
exists, where they should really
take the time to invest
time and learn it. Yeah.
Well, that's why we're talking
again, because I use PowerShell
today, just today in a
talk that I did on
velocity, which is a data
caching system and their administration
tool that should they ship
rather than shipping some kind
of sad WinForms application, they
shipped a PowerShell command list.
So they shipped, I think,
like 20 cash related things
to start and stop the
cash cluster. Definitely. And when
you, when you said about
the verbs being a verb
noun verb, now that this
is a standardized thing, if
you want to ship a
commandlet, there's a limited number
of verbs and you have
to, it's not like one
guy calls it get, and
the other guy calls it
fetch, and someone else says
retrieve, they have actually up,
there's a command, the name
conventionalized. And you guys have
established that with the common
engineering criteria list. I wanna
say the 2009 version was
when they first made it
mandatory for the server skew
type products to ship with
PowerShell support of some kind.
Okay. And that's gotten even
more formal, you know, in
the subsequent versions. So, you
know, if, if you're, if
you work with windows, PowerShell
is going to be a
part of your life, whether
you like it or not,
you know, so it's time
to get used to it
and, and really kind of
take advantage of what's there
Personally coming from a, I
come from a development background,
which is probably like a
lot, This is a good
balance here because Kirk, you're
coming from a dev, a
point of view of a
developer and how you're coming
from the point of view
of more of a, of
a large enterprise. It management's
perspective. Right? So, so I
kind of bridged the bolt's
roles today, but still mostly
development. I still that's my
full time job. That's what
I do every day. And
this consistency that you guys
are talking about, which is
just so key for me,
because it allows me for
the first time with, with
any languages I've experienced, be
able to make intelligent guesses
and be right, like the
vast majority of the time,
you don't find, you don't
find that there is one
command left that has dash
ID as the parameter. And
another one that has dash
like the consistency extends even
inside the command, that model
so that you can make
intelligent guesses and get your
work done more quickly. And
it would seem, you would
think initially as maybe if
you're hearing this, this would
be constraining. It's almost like
saying, well, you know, here's
C sharp, here's the formalized
grammar of the language and
a bowl, by the way,
you can only name your
functions like this, you go,
Oh, wow. Don't hold me
back. Don't hold me down.
But when you're talking about
500 commandlets, and then you
add in things like exchange
or velocity, in my example,
you're going to have a
vocabulary of thousands and thousands
of things that you could
potentially want to call you
want to, you want that,
that constraint. Exactly. So you
can just step in, I
could probably step into exchange,
which I know uses a
PowerShell now for it's stuff.
I assume they have to
get mailbox, get user I'm
just guessing. Yes, absolutely. They
do. And so you can
go in there and apply
the same knowledge set that
you get and basic PowerShell
inside of all these various
platforms. Yeah. So the, the
investment of time that you've
made learning the basic PowerShell
commandlets, you can take the
set of verbs. You already
know the verse, you know,
what get does get, gets
an object, you know, send
takes in a resource you
have, and, you know, send
it somewhere else. And there's
definitions for these. You can
find on Microsoft site. And
then the, the set of
nouns is related to the
domain, which you probably already
from. Exactly. And the thing
that's most important though, is
the stringing together of these
things. And the example that
I always give is about
getting a process, right? So
you're on a, you're on
a Unix or star nix,
right. You know, starting a,
and you say PS, and
you get your Pulitzer processes.
And then let's say that
I asked you as a
task, as an it guy
take the list of processes,
find me the top five
memory hogs. Are you going
to make me use, set
an oxide? Exactly. Right. So
what happens? You say PS,
and then you pipe it
through set and you pipe
with you walk and then
there's regular. Cause you're, you're,
you're messing with format attacks.
Right? Right. So in PowerShell,
everything's an object. You know,
developers have been familiar with
object oriented concepts for a
long time. Administrators have not
been used to that. That's
something new, but it's something
that, that it's easy to
take advantage of. Once you
get the concept down that
you don't have to do
the text parsing, you don't
have to think of, okay.
Was, you know, do I
look at column nine or
10 in this particular output?
So I can always look
at, well, I can take,
for example, get dash process
run that, you know, give
the, give the name of
a process that I want
to work with, pipe it
to stop process. I don't
have to, to think about
how the, you know, point
a gets to point B
that's that object that I'm
passing on. Also with respect
to everything, being an object
as a developer, a lot
of people are probably familiar
with using reflection when they
want to go in and
get, you know, get the
details that aren't necessarily readily
available. But PowerShell allows you
to go and just ask
the objects, what you can
do in terms of pipelining.
You can take any object
and pipe it to get
member, and it'll spit out
a list of all the
properties and all the methods
that are there for you.
And so you can very
easily see the syntax. And
so where you can't guess
you can ask and you
don't have to go and
to documentation, you can just
learn it directly using PowerShell
itself. So both of you
has said this, pipe it
to when you do this
and you just pipe it
to pipe it to that
pipe, to this, the, the
example of get process, say,
get process Explorer, exe pipe,
stop process. The output of
get processed Explorer is actually
a process. It's not a,
it's a CLR type. It's
the process object that we're
used to using. So you
as a C sharp developer
would be familiar with, I
think his maybe was it
system dot diagnostics, some diagnostics
that's a class you would
write in C sharp, and
then you use the same
class. So you're speaking the
same language in the sense
that if I go and
say, let's say DIR, which
is actually an alias for
get child item. Yes. That's
going to return a file
info. The same one that
you're used to using as
a C sharp developer. Yeah.
And because it's based on
this whole model, and because
it's based on sitting on
top of.net, you can, you
can just go and use.net
directly inside of it. It
supports that. So where the
commandlets aren't available, you can
just, if you're a developer,
you can just write functions
or just do ad hoc
scripting and invoke.net directly. You
don't have to worry about
going in and building your
own custom command, like compiling
the code and importing it
in. You just do it
right in power. Yeah. So
then they get processed example.
When I pipe it to
stop process, I don't actually
even give any input or
command line things to stop
process that's right. It takes
the process as input naturally.
It knows that that's the
thing it acts upon, right?
Yes, absolutely. And one of
the things I thought it
was really amazing as you
call get processed or something
like that, you pipe it
to stop processing the part
that always freaks people out
as you go dash. What
if, What if it's great.
And then what if it's
like kind of standard across
the board for all PowerShell
commandlets and it allows you
to basically say, what if
I was going to do
this? What would it do?
And it'll spit back to
you, some texts, output saying,
it's going to stop the
process on certain system, whatever
name you specify. Hmm. And
when you're doing big operations,
you can, most everything supports.
What if doesn't, I can
say like, what if I
deleted this? And what if
I stopped that process? Yeah.
And there's a set of
several of these common parameters.
What F is one of
them you also have confirm
as another one now called
the ubiquitous parameters. Yeah. Right.
They're kind of like required
four or five. Right? Right.
So there's a, you know,
a flag you set when
you're creating a commandlet and
you just automatically get all
of those. Now the idea
that I'm going to pass
something in, and it just
it's understood that this is
the default kind of thing
that I would act upon,
like stop the process. Excellent
pawn processes is, is pretty
powerful. But the, the automatic
binding of parameters I think
is really interesting because there's
a thing called import CSV,
right. That I find myself
using all the time. Do
you use that CSV? It's
it is pretty neat that
you can take, you know,
what this flat file, you
know, comma separated obviously, and
you don't have to think
about Parson. Have you ever,
you're a developer in VB
script working with, with text
files and especially commerce separated
values. It was common to
do so, but you had
to insert all these CHR
34 strengths and so forth.
And because it wasn't a
kind of a native thing,
a good example would be
just make a, like I
did, I did a thing
with virtual machines once I
had it CSV file. And
I said, name comma. I
was like machine name, right?
Comma. What was it like,
I don't know you, you
know, username or whatever. So
I was like name, comma
ID, comma, something. And then
I said, import CSV. And
then this turns automatically into
kind of a structured table
of values. And then PowerShell
immediately knows that there's a
name column and a computer
name column and whatever column.
Yes. And, and you can
see that used when you're
pipelining. So, I mean, I've
seen examples where you have
an HR department that gives
somebody a text file. Here's
some new users coming into
the company and it's CSV
and they have to go
make those new users. So
you don't have to use
any UI for it. You
can just import the CSV
file and pipe it to
a command like a new
QAD user. And go ahead
and just create your users
because you already have all
the fields set, whichever ones
are important to you. Right.
And the, the thing, the
thing that's interesting that that's,
Oh, that's almost magic is
that if you have an
ID column and like, for
example, let's say I had
a list of processes and
process ID was one of
the column names and the
command that you're piping into
expects a parameter called process
ID. It'll just assume I'll
you didn't give me anything.
These lineup that must be,
how does those little bind
is binary? Yeah. They're buying
double properties Property. Yes. Yeah.
That's magic. Absolutely automatic. It
seems like most magic. The
things that are so I'm
so easily impressed with are
effectively four loops. Right? The
idea that, Hey, I've got
a virtual machine. I can
start and stop it with
a PowerShell commandlet Oh, let's
do 100 of those. Well,
let's do a million of
those. Yeah. And I think
that's, that was one of
the first things that I
saw in PowerShell that just
complete me away with how,
how easy it is to
work with in anything. I
was so impressed by N
plus one. I don't know
why. I don't know why,
but it's D well working
with, you know, batch files,
for example, you had your
four slash F you know,
Oh, gosh, I challenge you.
I challenge anyone in my
listeners to do a four
loop in a batch file
without Googling for it first.
Oh yeah. It's, it's, it's
impossible and crazy. And the
syntax, you just messed up
for something with a lot
of percentages in yeah, yeah,
yeah. Doing, doing the same
kind of thing with PowerShell,
whether it's, you know, reading
through lines in a text
file or are starting virtual
machines. So you're talking about
it's, it's just so simple.
Virtual machines kind of brings
up something a, of a
soft spot in my heart.
Cause you wrote a book
on managing virtual machines from
PowerShell, right. It's managing a
VMware infrastructure with PowerShell TFM.
I say, be impressed. That's
a book I just finished
up recently just started shipping
the other day, in fact.
And so the, where they
were one of the earlier
companies to a third party,
you know, to ship commandments
for PowerShell, there were, there
were a couple that were
afford them, but there were
one of the early ones
to jump on the bandwagon.
Right. And I hadn't gotten
involved with them and just
had the opportunity to write
a book about it. It
was pretty a neat experience,
but they have over 120
commandlets they shipped. So how
do, why do I need,
I mean, virtual machines start
machine stop machine hibernate. Why
do I, there's three. I'm
done. What do I need?
Another a hundred commands. Yeah.
You've got start and stop
and remove and add a
new and set. But think
about all the different nouns
that we've got to work
with. Specific. Some of these
are specific to VMware products,
but, but a lot of
them map directly to hyper
V or any other virtualization
type product you've got virtual
machines are gonna work with,
you've got the hosts, the
host servers, various structures when
you're managing like folders and
data centers. And then don't
forget the virtual networking you've
got switched. We actually kind
of create these configure these
completely from scratch. Totally a
what they would say headless.
Yeah. You never actually touched
the machine or see the
machine it's just out there.
Yeah. It was a name
and a trivial to create
a script that would, you
know, go from zero to
creating, you know, a hundred
virtual machines, various different based
on templates that you'd created
beforehand. You know, maybe you
had a, you know, serve
application, a database application and
you know, client PCs and
just arrange it just so,
and you just hit go
and it goes off. And
does it, Do you know
how to make the possible
out of the impossible? Well,
the dotnet ninjas at Telerik
do they just released a
huge pack of web controls,
all built on top of
ASB at Ajax, that'll help
you build impossibly fast and
interactive applications in no time
at all. They've made the
impossible possible in desktop development.
If you think you can't
have a carousel component and
wind forms, well you can.
They're windows form suite features
a super powerful grid view
control, and 32 other crazy
desktop components. That'll give you
a dazzling WPF like features,
but in wind farms, they
do the same thing in
reporting solutions with a new
design surface, like nothing else
looks just like graph paper,
cause you advanced page layout
capabilities makes it feel more
like a graphic design software
than a reporting solution. Go
check them out@telerikdotcomandbeat.net Ninja. Thanks
for listening. Now, back in
the day, a team that
I was working with at,
at Karelian, which was the
company that I worked at
before Microsoft now, now called
CheckFree was, was using PowerShell
to automate this, the system
such that after ms. Build
in our continuous integration server
would finish the build. We
wouldn't just kind of drop
a bunch of binaries in
a folder and say, Hey,
that's the build we would
actually create and fire up
a virtual machine, using a
PowerShell, install the bits into
that. And then basically got
to the point where we
could automate the creation and
the testing of this bill.
So that a virtual machine
was the artifact of the
build. We thought we were
pretty awesome when we did
that. I think you're pretty
often, but it was three
years ago and I had
to write a bunch of
stuff in order to remote
into that virtual machine to
poke stuff into it. And
that was a real hassle.
Yeah. What PowerShell to going
to fix that? Can I
remote into it? Yeah. PowerShell
to remoting is one of
the very big features that's
coming out with version two
it's based on Ws management,
which is a, you know,
an XML based protocol and
based On standards that have
been well-defined. In fact, it's
not a Microsoft standards on
a Microsoft thing, right. It's
not a Microsoft thing. She
used to work for. IBM.
I did. So that's so
you like this? Oh, I
like this a lot. Oh,
that's good. So it can
be friends then. Yeah. Awesome.
Okay, good. So the PowerShell
version two remoting, what you
can do with it is
it's as simple as running
a background job on your
own PC, like you might
do with an ampersand on
a Linux box. Let me
guess new hyphen job. I
don't remember. It would have
to, it wouldn't it? Cause
it's a con cause it's
a convention and a, well,
there's also a common parameter
called as job, which you
see on some commands. Oh
really? Okay. So this is
a new parameter. So like
what if was everywhere? So
some commands let's I can
just run it as a
job. Yes. Okay. So that's
one aspect of it. And
then you also have the
remoting feature where you could,
for example, have opened up
a shell to a remote
system, take advantage of commandments
that it has on its
system and, and you know,
whatever resources are on that
remote system. And then you
can invoke scripts either, you
know, against one system, Oregon's
a hundred systems, Something else
that's kind of cool about
the whole remoting feature with
it being based on Ws,
man, that puts Ws man
support directly in the PowerShell.
So when you have have
large hardware vendors like Intel
and HP providing Ws man
interfaces directly into their hardware,
so you can even power
on and power off machines
using Ws, man, really in
new tech, new technologies that
you can and tell how
the V pro I forget
what HP has, but most
of the new, most of
the hardware vendors have this
solution. And they've even showed
a demo here at tech
ed showing how you can
remote use power shell with
Ws man power on your
machine powered off while it's
off, look at the events
on the machine While it's
off. Yes. There is a
chip inside that is still
responding to Ws man requests
and allowing you to check
out machine accounts and everything.
So for your scenario, you
were talking about at Kirlian
was that, yeah, this is
even great because you can,
you can have your machines
totally offline and automate the
turning on doing the work
and shutting them down when
you're done. Wow. That's pretty
slick now. So some people
might say, Oh, they added
remoting to PowerShell. Right. Welcome
to 1975. We've just created
secure sockets. This is not
just that. It's not just
like Telnet and I get
a command prompt and a
remote machine, right? No, it's
not just like Telnet now
to be fair, a company
and software, they had actually
worked on an SS H
based remoting solution for power
shell, which was kind of
novel. And there's some neat
stuff you can do with
that. But no, these guys
said Jefferson over and the
team have thought long and
hard about this. And there's
a lot of cool things
that they've enabled that go
along with the remoting, such
as restricted run spaces. So
right. We should talk about
what a run spaces. Cause
I think that that's, that's
interesting cause within the context
of hosting stuff within my
application, like for example, I
just recently did a demo
where I hosted iron Python,
basically Python was a scripting
language and I did some
work with it and I
can understand, I can host
run spaces and run PowerShell
commands within C sharp applications.
Yes. And so you can
create as many run spaces
as you need to each
one being their own encapsulated
environment, working with PowerShell. So
a run spaces is almost
like it's a PowerShell session.
You can, we can open
up a new run space
and work with environment, work
with variables and commands inside
that environment without polluting other
run spaces. Okay. I remember
that I did something with
run spaces a couple of
years ago. I wrote like,
what's it called? It was
logo. Remember the little turtle
game. Yes. I wrote a
logo application where I had
a robot that it would
control. Very cool. And I
was thinking about some of
the security ramifications for that
because I basically put it,
there was PowerShell could have
done anything I could have
typed in format C colon
and it would've, it would
have gone off and done
that. I mean, is this,
is this secure by default?
I mean, could I hurt
myself by hosting run space?
You could hurt yourself, but
as an it admin, you
can configure in spaces so
that they're restricted. You can
assign what command let's can
actually run inside of a
run space and define pretty
granular, granular. Absolutely. Okay, cool.
Now you're working at home
Depot. Are you going to
do anything with this on
a large scale? Are you
going to put this on?
I don't know how many
thousands of machines, well, they
have 2300 stores and believe
it or not, they have
an average of 30 PCs
in every store, 30 PCs
at home Depot, 30 PCs.
That includes a point of
sale system. That's a lot
of machines though, but yeah,
there's a lot of machines.
Okay. So one of my
responsibilities is going to be
to work on the monitoring
team, going to be pulling
out, you know, instrumentation data
off of these PCs that
are currently not monitored using
PowerShell. So when you're putting
a PowerShell on, you know,
a hundred thousand plus nodes,
okay, so you're gonna put
power on a hundred thousand
machines. They're all running windows,
something else, right? Most of
them are XB presently. Okay.
So you'll put PowerShell on
XP PowerShell to probably one,
depending on the timeframe of
this project. But you know,
two is definitely in scope
once they're, once that's on
there and you've got admin,
cause your powerful it guy,
you can ask these machines
anything because then you've got
WMI, right? And there's a
lot of AWI support built
in and WWI for a
long time. To me felt
like this kind of weird
foreign it's funny,  kind
of come around. It used
to be something that, that
used to always interest me,
but it was hard to
work with the language and
other universe, parallel universe and
windows. Especially we look at
mic, which is a command
line executable use to enumerate
and work with WMI. The
syntax of it is just
awful and it's just crazy
to work with. But, and,
and doing, working with WMI
and VB script was, was
pretty, pretty bad. There was
a, it's like 15 lines
to really get into the
actual class that has the
data you need PowerShell. It's
one command line, get dash
w my object. And you,
you know, you give the
name of, you know, when
30 to underscore a baseboard
or whatever. So there's a
note entry you're wandering around.
You've got classes of objects
and there's various and inheritances,
and there's a lot of
built in ones and they're,
they're common to all PCs.
Okay. So this is important.
So I can ask with
WMI using this common format,
I can say, how many
processors does it have? If
I remember correctly, I could
go down in some instances
and see if it has
fans, what I can do
with it. That's exactly the
type of thing that I'm
gonna be looking at fans
to, you know, case temperature,
that sort of thing you
can tell temperature. Yeah. If,
if the manufacturer has written
a diary, my provider, huh?
Definitely because I know that
I've got the temperature thing.
Cause I can see it
in my bios. And I
know I have the fans
and sometimes I can see
different applications that will let
me, I can install fan
control and different stuff like
this. But you know, it
all really depends on whether
or not that motherboard provider
has some provider that PR
that kind of bridges the
gap between however, their motherboards
speaks. Exactly. And in my
case, I'm working with them,
Hewlett Packard, computers that have
what they call client management
interface, I think is what
they call their set of
providers made to bridge that
gap that you're talking. Okay.
W might also bring some
additional functionality to the table,
not just for managing general
computer use. But if you
look at systems like hyper
V right now, if you're
going to use hyper V
today and you want to
do it right. Maybe being
Microsoft's virtualization. Yes. Yes. And
then they don't provide commandlets
out of the box. You
can use system center, VM
system center, virtual machine manager,
2008, which has commandlets that
work against hyper V. Or
if you don't have that
solution, then you can use
WMI. So with power for
PowerShell users, you're not stuck
wondering why, when are they
going to have command let's
because you can just use
the WMI Three years ago,
we were using, what was
it? Virtual server, 2005. I
was using the calm interface
to that start and stop
my VMs. And it was
working quite nicely. Yeah. And,
and that's a cool thing
about PowerShell. Is it, it
didn't throw anything away. So
you, you still have access
to these thousands of comm
objects that have been on
your system since windows 95.
You know, you, you also
have ADSI, which is a
interface that administrators have been
familiar with working in VB
script. It's still there. It's
still accessible. Now the, the
format for w for, for
PowerShell, it's, it's a little
obtuse. And once you get
really you can multiple lines
stringing commands. And then for
each object and curly prays,
it's a little Baroque. Once
you get to four or
five lines long, what do
you guys use to, rather
than just writing all this,
the command line. I mean,
you can't really go in
visual studio and write these
scripts. You know, that, that
is a, an often asked
question why you can't do
it in visual studio, but
you know, they don't have
color coding for right now,
for example. But you know,
there, there's definitely, there's several
third party applications that, that
you can use to help
enhance. Now, Microsoft kind of
started trend calling the, the
integrated scripting environment. That's what
the ISE thing. So I
said that when I looked
at my Dell here, I've
got PowerShell, ISE. It looks
like a little query analyzer.
Yeah. For power show. So
there's A few in this
class, you've got ideas, PowerShell
plus, and that has IntelliSense,
you know, syntax highlighting, and
you've got a shell and
you've got an editor and
you also have of course
power going. So power GUI,
this is your Company's product
or one of your company's
products. Powerful. Yeah. At quest,
we do a lot of
different solutions, but power gooey
is the product I specifically
work on day in and
day out. And so that's
what I that's personal bias.
Right. But you're a host.
So you're hosting the run
space. Right. So you've written
an application in some language,
maybe C-sharp yes. And you're
hosting PowerShell inside of that.
Yes, absolutely. Okay. And it
runs exactly as it would
run if I ran it
somewhere else. Yes. Okay. So
you do all of your
edits and you're living in
your own application all day
long writing parts. Yes. It
gives me my syntax highlighting
and TeleSign so as a
developer, you know, the key
things I look for, I
have that in power in
Paraguay, he gives those to
me today. And w can
I make, when I make
a command that I write
the command that in C
sharp, or maybe in VP,
in a dotnet language, what's
the difference by finding why?
When would I write a
script? And when would I
run a command line? Cause
we struggled with this years
ago, we, we never knew
really where you get scripts.
And the next thing you
know, you've written a thousand
lines of script and you
go, wow, that really should've
been a commandlet. Yeah, it's
a fine line. I mean,
you, in V one you
have functions available to you
or you can go ahead
and write the command lit
functions is great because you
can prototype it and do
it as quickly inside of
PowerShell, but you're not necessarily
going to get the same
performance you can out of
a compiled module. So depending
on your needs, you may
want to go there to
the command lit in V2,
you can actually do, what's
called an advanced function, which
it brings functions and let's
even closer together and allows
you to specify the perimeter
bindings and things you couldn't
previously do in functions in
version one. So this is
a script that looks like
a commandlet. Yes. And it's
all written entirely in PowerShell.
Okay. So I don't have
to go and say, get
hyphen Hanselman dot P S
one or whatever the extension
is. It looks and behaves
like a, like it's really
there and built into the
system. Yes. Even even includes
help even at a, get
help support for functions so
you can get the rich
help. So that means that
there's more of a pathway
than if I get caught
up in a script and
I say, wow, this should
have been a chameleon. I
remember when I was talking
with Jeffrey, it really requires
a lot of thought, Jeffrey,
snow, the architect of PowerShell.
And it was Bruce, Bruce
Payette, the designer of the
language that if you want
to make a really good
system, that handles command let's
you have to think about
the domain. It really needs
to be a domain driven
design. You know, what is
it we're trying to accomplish?
What are the objects that
are going to pass over
are our pipes and how
they're going to interact. And
I don't think that I,
I know I didn't do
that on the version. One
of my, my PowerShell based
system, PowerShell a consumer now
for two years, that's generally
how I find I write
my functions today is I
will try to package them
up like a, almost like
it would be a snap
in that you would import,
but it just Functional library.
So snap. So with all
the buzz words, Kirk, what's
wrong. So snapping for our,
for our listeners who may
not know what a snap
in is. Yeah. Snap-in is
a compiled module that you
can import into PowerShell version
one. And that's how you
add commandlets for, for VMware
or exchange 2007, right. In
version two, that changes slightly.
So they have the new
concept of modules, which is
basically a big brother to
snap bins. So you can
now import type libraries directly
from DLLs and you don't
have to do just adding
a snapping that is contains
nothing, but, Okay. So then
just like the snap ins
that were used to an
MMC, I can go file,
add snap and I can
and have management ability. And
it appears in a note
and tree, I can do
the same thing in PowerShell.
Yes. You can do add
that. Add dash P S
napping in version one, or
in version two, you can
do import dash module. And
then, and then your product
power GUI is kind of
a mix of the two
it's kind of MMC and
PowerShell where I can import
snap ins and modules and
going to get a similar
experience. The best of both
worlds, both MMC and PowerShell.
Yeah. Cause we have a
second part. That's the FMC
side of the fence, which
has an MMC like UI
that's powered by PowerShell scripts
behind the scenes. And that's
what I that's my primary
task at work is fleshing
out these, these power packs.
That's basically our name for
a collection of these scripts.
So, so for the, for
the developers and I'm suspecting,
I I'm suspecting that my
audience is 80% developers, more
developers than, than not. When,
when should they look for
opportunities to use, to use
PowerShell? And I don't mean
they should just make up
an opportunity, but a PowerShell
is definitely a solution. What
are the kinds of problems
that they're going to want
to solve? And it's funny
that I took the mic,
you know, at the administrator
answering this question, I want
to say to the developers
that whenever you want your,
your application, okay, you, you
make plans. You have a
way that you design your
program and you, you think
that, you know how it
ought to be used, but
you're wrong. You don't know
how it's going to be
used. Okay. So you're going
to, you're going to be
right. Most of the time,
hopefully. Sure. But when it
lands in the pits and
when people were sitting down
and using it in the
real world, they're going to
need to extend it. They're
going to need to tie
it to other things. And
if you, whether you're hosting
a PowerShell instance in your
application, whether you are, you
know, shipping a set of
commandments by integrating PowerShell in
with your product, you are
giving the users the glue
that they need, but you're
allowing them to script it.
You're learning them to compose,
compose it with other things.
Right? Right. There's a couple
of other key scenarios that,
that PowerShell brings to the
developers that I used when
I was just starting using
PowerShell. If you're doing support
for a customer and you're
trying to figure out what's
going wrong and they're already
using a.net based application, well,
you can use.net directly in
PowerShell. And you don't have
to think about, am I
installing visual studio on this
person's system to debug it?
You don't need to, you
can just go and throw
in one of these fancy
editors that allows you to
step through the code and
just do this directly in
PowerShell. So that's a great
support opportunity for developers. That's
interesting. My mom is running
the windows seven RC now,
and I never, once in
a while, I'll use remote
desktop to run into her
machine. And now you got
me thinking that I might
go and write some PowerShell
scripts to, to help her
debug some of the problems
that she has day by
day. Aren't the, the new
troubleshooter packs that are built
into windows seven. You guys
know about these. If you
have problem with something in
windows seven, like for example,
yesterday, I couldn't figure out
why transparency wouldn't turn on.
So I typed in fix
typing in transparency and then
it says, find and fix
problems with transparency and I
hit enter and this nice
dialog box comes up. And
I said to myself, Oh
wow, that's cool. And then
I started doing a little
bit of searching around. This
is PowerShell. Isn't it? That's
doing this work. I believe
so. Yes. Behind the scenes,
they have some troubleshooting modules
for, for PowerShell and we
can write ourselves. Absolutely. And
that's pretty cool. I noticed
that because I, I I'm
using a tool to, to
Raz in, to, to work.
And when I installed that
tool on my machine, so
I could VPN into work,
they installed a troubled troubleshooter,
which gets me thinking about
what a person who has
a product could do to
install troubleshooting packs, to find
and fix simple problems and
using PowerShell. And of course,
in this example, as the
user, I would never know
that this was using harsher.
For sure. And even when
you're talking about troubleshooting and
fixing users' problems, I mean,
as a developer, you're dealing
with customers who have, you
know, a certain version of
your application and they may
want some new features. Those
new features may end up
closing a sales deal if
they have those features and
you might not have them
baked in. So I mean,
alternatives are that you scramble
and try to put those
into a compiled module, or
maybe you use something like
PowerShell to come in and
fill in the blank as
a stop gap measure until
you can actually go and
put those features into your
product. And that's something else
I've done in the past
that I found very handy.
Well, I'm looking forward to
the ubiquity of PowerShell. The
idea that when everyone gets
up on these is newer
operating systems, it'll just be
there now, but I won't
be able to just send
it to someone. I can't
just email you how a
dot P S file on
DoubleClick and then take over
your computer, right? No, you
can't. And of course, Microsoft
learned some lessons from a
VB script and you know,
the, I love you virus
and Melissa and all that
by default you're, you're only
going to be able to
execute scripts that have been
signed on your local PC.
Okay. So you're basically not
able to run scripts at
all. Right? Because I don't
have any science scripts. That's
exactly right. There's several levels
that you can set it
to. For example, you can
say remote sign. So any
script that you create on
your, on your PC will
run without having to sign
it. But anything of downloaded
from the internet will be
tagged and you can't run
it unless it's signed. And
then you can, you could
set it all the way
down to unrestricted if you
like. Okay. Well, very cool.
Well, thanks so much you
guys, for talking to me
today, we've got a Kirk.
They can check out your
stuff at power gooey. Yes.
At power gui.org,  dot
org, and then how a
PowerShell community.org. That's right. And
you guys can, we have
forums and we have forums.
And we, you know, tried
to raise the bar of
PowerShell awareness in general and
give resources to people. And
we'd like to support local
user groups as well. Alright.
And then if the listeners
want to see me suffering
with PowerShell 1.03 years ago,
I've got a PowerShell category
on my blog. And I'm,
I think I might go
and write myself a troubleshooter
in, in PowerShell and installing
in the windows seven. Cool.
Well, thanks so much guys,
for talking to me today.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.